# Data

* Need place data for total pop. and race by ethnicity 1980-2010
* Need to locate places inside CBSAs and Regions: but not all places exist across all periods. So need place coordinates spanning multiple decades. These should be available through NHGIS. There are individual files w/ point coordinates for places for each census.
* Chris used 2010 CBSA boundares. Also on NHGIS
* Chris took steps to retain principal cities that changed over time
* For non-principal cities, then, is the idea to retain all places that existed in at least once census period 1980-2010? That seems to be the case. So the dataset of places is the distinct set of places that existed across this period, with principal cities in some cases being altered to link past FIPS/GISJOIN codes to current FIPS/GISJOIN codes.
* Need to identify places as principal cities. I can find delineation files for 2013 [here](https://www.census.gov/geographies/reference-files/time-series/demo/metro-micro/delineation-files.html). 
* Add regions

# Sample
* because we are linking pop change, which involves two periods for measurement, we need to create a sample of places that exist 1980-1990, 1990-2000, 2000-2010. Can start w/ 2000-2010.
* first find all CBSAs meeting CF's criteria, i.e., those having 29+ places and at least one principal city with 50k+ inhabitants in 1980. This guarantees we select CBSAs with an adequate number of places for analysis. For each CBSA, select all places (less CDPs) existing in both 2000 and 2010. Then need to join region.

```sql
# Remove Puerto Rico
pc<-pc[which(pc$State !=72),]
#Pheonix Lake-Cedar Ridge changed from 656871 to 656870
pc[which(pc$FIPS==656871),"FIPS"]<-656870
#Honolulu changed from 1517000 to 1571550
pc[which(pc$FIPS==1517000),"FIPS"]<-1571550
#Union NJ changed to Union City 3474510 to 3474630
pc[which(pc$FIPS==3474510),"FIPS"]<-3474630
#Edison NJ merged with Metuchen
pc[which(pc$FIPS==3420260),"FIPS"]<-3445690
#Three principal cities no longer exist????
pc<-subset(pc,pc$FIPS %in% c(2670545,3422180,3477870)==FALSE)
```


## Interpretation
Shrinking places were more diverse in 1990, negatively impacting metro segregation, but their contribution to segregation has increased to the point of positively contributing to within-metro segregation. This may reflect shrinking places growing homogeneity through white flight. But Detroit and other large shrinking cities have grown in diversity. Of course these measures are relative to changes in other places. Do we have theory to guide analysis and interpretation? 

## Descriptives 

Need to generate useful descriptives for project. These could include boxplots of diversity scores for growing and shrinking places for each period. But the real comparison is between groups of places and their respective CBSAs, but that is what is accomplished through the decomposition. 

## Revisions
CF wants to replace geographic regions w/ regions defined as 1) all growing metros and 2) all shrinking metros. So the first level of decomposition accounts for segregation between these two "regions." In retrospect, I am not sure this will do what he wants, which is account for/remove the context of being in a growing or losing metro before examining the grouped places w/in metros component. Though it may be necessary to have an adequate number of subunits in lower levels of the decomposition. In any event, below the region-level decomposition, I think we want to/ must account for between-metro segregation with each region. This calculation is the sum of the weighted differences btw growing metros and the overall diversity of growing metros ("region") and the diffs btw shrinking metros and the overall diversity of shrinking metros ("region"). Beneath this level we want to decompose within metro segregation into the between-group component based on grouping places into growth/loss groups. The last element of the decomposition comes from segregation between places within groups.

I have a hard time thinking about segregation between non-geographically related areas at the macro scale, particularly between region and between metro (within region) levels of segregation when the regions are based on sorting growing from losing metros. This can make for strange bedfellows and is non-intuitive. Can we not still decompose between growth and loss metros at the next scale down? Parisi does something like this by decomposing CBSAs into metro, micro, and fringe. We can adapt this by decomposing CBSAs into growth and loss. The calc for each metro group is the sum of the weighted diffs btw region diversity and metro diversity. Then we move down and separately decompose between group segregation 1) within loss and 2) within growth metros.

__initial schema__
* between regions (geogrpahic)
* between metros w/in regions
* betweek groups (aggregated places) w/in metros
    - decomposed into growth and loss groups

__revised schema__
* between regions (CBSAs sorted by growth/loss)
* between metros w/in regions 
    - between (growth) metros (w/in growth regions)
    - between (loss) metros (w/in loss regions). 
* between groups within growth metros within growth regions
    - decomposed into growth and loss groups
* between groups within loss metros within loss regions
    - decomposed into growth and loss groups
* between places within groups

Concern is less about contribution to overall H score, more about contribution to w/in metro H score. How to obtain/derive w/in metro H separately for growth and loss metros? Can this only be calculated by aggregating up, rather than subtracting down?

What about simple between places in growing and shrinking metros? Seems like a sensible thing to examine.

Grouping places into growth/loss groups within growing or shrinking metros does not explain a substantial amount of between place segregation within metros. Would it be useful to examine a single representative metro to examine the contribution of its constituent places to overall btw place segregation? Each place would function like its own "group," with some places being more or less diverse than the metro in which they are nested. We could compare these contributions to population change in that place, even plotting them in 2d space, with pop change on the xaxis and contribution to metro segregation on the yaxis.