# tract decomposition

With the decomposition analysis we can assess the amount of total between-tract segregation accounted for by segregation between nested units, in our case, between growth and loss groups. With the place-level analysis, we aggregated places into groups based on population loss. We can do the same with tracts, but with tracts we can cut across place boundaries to create synthetic geographies of growth and loss. 

As with the place-level analysis, however, I am uncertain of the conceptual framework. The decomposition allows us to say (1) how much of total between-unit segregation is accounted for by the categories of growth/loss and (2) whether individual levels of our group variable are more or less diverse than their parent geography. How do we interpret results? How do we theorize the relationship between pop. change, specifically loss, and intra-metropolitan segregation, whether between places or tracts? Do we think places become more or less diverse with change, specifically loss? (I would think income diversity is impacted more than racial diversity over the past 20 years - post White flight) How do we account for inital diversity? Do we believe pop loss in one unit is related to pop growth in another in the same metro area? And what groups do we think are moving? Both growing and shrinking places contribute to segregation, particularly in the nation's canonical shrinking cities. Declining places are disproportionately Black and growing places disproportionately White, though perhaps more diverse on average than shrinking places. Segregation could be argued to be the mechanism driving loss, with homogeneous minority-occupied places more likely to experience loss.

Is there value in simply describing the amount of segregation (mainly black-white) accounted for by pop change categories across metros? or for individual metros? So much of this depends on the number of declining units. Metros with more loss tracts will likely have higher percentages of total between-unit segregation accounted for by growth/loss groupings. It also appears that loss groups are not much different from overall metro, but growth group in metros like Detroit and Chicago are far less diverse (contribute more to segregation.) We can decompose separately within loss metros, as with the between-place analysis. But this can lead to odd groupings, with some heavy loss cities contained in (barely) growing metros. Can define metros based on presence of Ganning-defined shrinking city.

If we want to work with tracts, how can we examine changing between group segregation over time? What rules for selecting stable set of tracts? 